---
title: How would you build the pyramids?
description: A primer into the differences between frameworks to balance complexity.
date: 2019-02-14
path: /how-would-you-build-the-pyramids
featuredImage: ./images/howwouldyoubuildthepyramids.png
featuredImageAlt: "triangles presented on a floating grid. An abstract image."
tags: ["productivity","long","product-management"]
author:
---

###Congratulations you got the promotion.

Your new job title is Time Travelling Project Manager. You’ve been given a license to time travel and you’re now member of the council of time travelling project managers.
It’s a coveted role and as a test to new members the board have given you two projects. To build the Pyramids and build the London Underground simultaneously. Time travelling in between of course.

In the historical responsible, accountable, consulted and informed chart (RACI) you are now both responsible and accountable for the correct and timely delivery of these wonders.

To clarify it’s not you physically building them but rather the teams who you’ll manage. On the line is your new licence to time travel, the historical importance of the projects and the status of your role.
Of course, you probably already know best, but let’s think about how you might need to go about this task.
Step 1 — The Requirements phase.
In which we understand to deliver something we’re going to need to understand what it is we need to deliver.
This phase introduces key players into our projects. We’re going to refer to them as stakeholders. What you’re after here is essentially to get clarity on some key who, what, where, when and why questions.
Who is going to be using it? What does it look like when finished? Where is it going to be? When do you expect this? Why do you want it? The last question is particularly important to understand as it’s the guiding motivation for why you are building something.
Our stakeholders could be divided in all manner of categories and they would also sit within our RACI. In our scenarios, they’ll be the ones who will be affected by and ultimately use what we create. We’re going to talk to them to find out what they’d like to build.
